Welcome back to Movie Recaps.
Today I will show you a horror, thriller,
war film from 2020, titled Ghosts of War.
Spoilers ahead!
Watch out and take care.
In Nazi-occupied France at the end of WW2,
an American squadron of soldiers is seen sleeping
in the woods.
One of them, Chris, has a nightmare and when
he wakes up he sees someone looking over them
from the adjacent tree.
The apparition keeps looking at Chris who
gets more unnerved and grabs at his pistol.
It cocks its own pistol which prompts Chris
to ask what it wants, expecting it to shoot
him, but when he reopens his eyes the apparition
has vanished.
The following morning, Chris and his squad
are preparing to leave for an outpost, where
they are expected to arrive.
Kirk is dealing with an insane rash from his
socks and asks Butchie if he has a spare pair,
only to be met by ridicule from both him and
Eugene.
The conversation ends with an argument between
Kirk and Eugene which gets interrupted by
Chris ordering the squad to move out.
During their walk to the outpost, the soldiers
hear an incoming jeep, then crouch down and
wait to ambush it with grenade launchers.
The jeep gets blown up by the squad and then
they go over to it to pick off the remaining
soldiers.
Tappert takes out the SS patch from an officer
as a trophy and pulls one of his golden teeth
out.
Kirk kills a survivor from the explosion as
Butchie looks for maps and coded messages.
Kirk finds another survivor who seems to be
in better shape than the rest of his men.
When they realize he's a major, Butchie decides
to box him, however, he doesn't seem too interested
and calls the others pigs for looting his
men's things.
Another survivor wakes up, and Butchie bashes
his head in which makes the major change his
mind about fighting so the two of them start
swinging punches at each other.
The nazi major seems to be a bit better in
hand-to-hand combat, so Chris comes over and
kills him.
Then, Chris turns to his men and orders them
to back up because he realized that they made
a wrong turn on the way.
Before they leave, Tappert also takes one
of the nazi's coats.
As they walk through the countryside, they
hear someone in the woods in front, so the
squad stops and waits until they see a group
of refugees come out of hiding.
The group continues on their journey and Tappert
runs out to them as a woman with a child waits
for him.
He gives her the coat, the gold teeth he has
collected, and the SS patch.
The squad continues their journey to the outpost
through flaming villages and the desolate
countryside when Chris tells them that the
outpost they are going to is actually a castle
that they have to safeguard.
When they arrive at the castle, the squad
sees one of the other guards sleeping in a
jeep outside.
They wake him up and he immediately runs in,
calling to his men that they can finally leave.
The squad walks into the castle to see the
other men hurrying to get out of there as
soon as they can.
Before they leave, Butchie asks them to leave
their radio in the castle.
Chris is suspicious about why they are in
such a hurry to leave since the place is so
nice and the commanding officer tells him
that some of them would like to make furlough,
so he lets them leave.
Later, the men are making lunch in the kitchen,
when Chris decides to take a look around the
house, something Eugene is already doing.
He finds a piano and sits down to play.
The music echoes through the empty castle
and all of its messed-up nooks and crannies.
Chris walks inside the main study only to
find a massive burn mark on the floor where
the chair used to be and then he hears some
strange noises coming from the vents unable
to make out what they are.
Butchie hears someone in the bathroom and
goes to check on it, finding the door locked
and as he walks away, the door opens.
They all gather in the den later, eating and
relaxing, when they hear strange noises, prompting
them to get their weapons and check it out.
Tappert and Butchie take the main staircase
and check all the doors on the second floor.
Kirk and Chris hear the sound close to them,
but they can't make out what it is as they
walk into a room with covered-up things.
They get to the kitchen and realize the noise
is coming from the other room and as they
prepare to enter it, the doors abruptly open.
Both men continue to the other room when they
reach drapes cordoning out the next one.
Once they pull the drapes, Kirk and Chris
see someone hanging in front of the window,
who disappears when the wind blows the covers
away.
Later that night, the men sit in front of
the fire and tell each other ghost stories
while Tappert is looking out the windows through
his scope.
Eugene tells them about a journal he found
in the basement that belonged to an 18-year-old
nazi who took over the house.
Suddenly, they all hear knocking noises coming
from the fireplace and Chris tells them that
it sounds like Morse code so Eugene deciphers
it into the sentence "I have no legs".
The sound stops abruptly.
Chris orders his men to rest, but stay cautious.
He tells Tappert to take the attic because
it's the best vantage point to tell if someone
is coming.
Eugene is in the basement and he's trying
to open a chest, before giving up and sitting
down on it.
He sees a photo of the family that lived in
the castle and reads about them in the nazi
soldier's journal.
Suddenly, his candle goes out.
He tries his lighter as something appears
behind him for a moment and when he lights
the candle again, he sees that the family
has disappeared from the photo.
Tappert sets up with a rifle on the attic
window.
He takes a look through his scope when somebody
appears behind him in the room.
As he's observing through the scope he sees
a hanged man for a moment, then gone the next.
Tappert keeps looking when suddenly a ghost
boy appears right in front of his view, scaring
him.
There's a bang on the wardrobe behind him
too.
Tappert goes outside to check more closely
until he notices Chris staring at him from
inside the castle.
The next day, Eugene, Kirk, and Chris sit
on the balcony and talk about how fast the
previous squad wanted to get out of there.
Eugene tells the others a story about Tappert
that happened when they were in Paris.
He'd found Tappert sitting in a pool of blood,
surrounded by the carved-up bodies of 7 teenage
Hitler youth kids.
Tappert was sitting with a string in his hands
as if he were playing Cat's cradle with someone
and with a scary look in his eyes.
Chris says that he's glad Tappert is on their
side when he suddenly shows up on the balcony.
Tappert tells them that the last squad wanted
to get out of there because they heard a radio
transmission about 50 German soldiers passing
by the castle on their way to Strasburg.
He advises his comrades that they should hide
in the woods until they pass, but Chris thinks
they should safeguard the castle.
Tappert says that he'll go to the attic to
try to spot them in time and tells Eugene
to join him.
Once there, they begin to prepare it when
they find a pentagram on the floor under the
rug.
Eugene's theory is that the nazis must have
killed the people that lived in the house
in a ritualistic way, explaining it with Hitler's
obsession with the occult.
They don't discuss it further and begin moving
the wardrobe from one side of the room to
the other.
When the wardrobe touches the pentagram, its
door closes onto Eugene's fingers, breaking
them.
He thinks that Tappert did it on purpose and
pushes him toward the wardrobe.
When he looks into the mirror, he sees the
reflection of a hanged woman.
Later, Eugene, Chris, and Kirk listen to one
of the frequencies on the radio, when they
hear something extra eerie.
A woman's voice can be heard saying that they
are coming for them.
They all agree that the castle might be haunted
and Kirk suggests they should leave even before
the nazis come.
Suddenly, Morse code can be heard coming from
the fireplace again.
Eugene deciphers it as "if you leave..." and
as he's writing something takes over his hand
and finishes the line with "...you will die".
That night, the squad prepares for the arrival
of the nazi troops, with Tappert in the attic
and the rest hiding behind a barricade near
the entrance.
When the nazi's get there Tappert spots them
and signals the rest while the troops gather
outside and surround the castle.
They try to enter, but since the doors are
locked they get back in their trucks and prepare
to leave when a loud banging noise from the
attic can be heard.
The nazis come back and begin to attack the
castle with Tappert only able to take one
of them out at a time.
Suddenly, they throw a grenade in front of
the barricade and Butchie jumps on it, taking
its full hit.
Chris gets thrown across the room, so he gets
up dizzy and confused, but still shooting
whatever nazi he can see.
More nazis come inside and Chris runs to the
basement, hiding under the stairs and allowing
himself ample cover to sneakily attack the
officers following him.
Meanwhile, Eugene hides in the study when
he hears someone behind him and then strange
voices coming from the vent.
He gets his gun ready to shoot but when he
jumps from behind the desk he faces no nazi
but a ghost, that abruptly bursts into flames.
A German soldier finds Butchie's decimated
body in the hallway as well as a second one
lying next to him.
He checks the second body when Chris turns
and kills him and the two others that show
up.
Kirk is hiding in the bathroom when he hears
drowning noises and children's laughter.
He looks over to the tub and sees a nazi soldier
drowning in it.
Tappert hears something in the attic and follows
it, only to find a nazi hanging in the middle
of the room.
The following morning, the squad is gathered
around Butchie, and consider giving him enough
morphine to end his suffering if necessary.
Chris orders them to take the bodies of the
nazis outside and when Eugene and Kirk bring
them over to the truck they are horrified
by the sight of what Tappert has done with
them.
Later, they talk about hauntings and ghosts
when Eugene suddenly figures out that everything
they experienced in the house was something
that the nazis did to the family that lived
in the castle.
The family met a gruesome end the day the
nazis came to their home.
The father was burned alive, tied to a chair
in the study.
The son was drowned in front of his mother's
eyes and the daughter was hanged from the
rafters in the attic.
Their bodies were never buried so Chris asks
if that's the reason why they became ghosts.
Eugene goes to check on Butchie.
While there, he gets scared by Tappert, who
joins him and tells him his version of the
Paris story with the Hitler youth.
Eugene realizes that not everything can be
easily explained and that Tappert's story
carries a different kind of weight which he
dug up when he reminded him of the story earlier.
Later, Chris has a nightmare about the tub,
in which a ghost appears to him and tries
to drown him.
While being pulled into the water, he sees
three masked soldiers that turn into nurses
and back to soldiers, before he wakes up.
The next day, they tend to Butchie and talk
about leaving the castle, even in the face
of being court marshaled for leaving their
posts.
Chris and Eugene go back to the basement to
search for anything that might have belonged
to the family.
Eugene goes to find his lighter and Chris
finds the journal, only he sees that the pages
are empty.
When Eugene comes back he acts all ominously
about it then Kirk suddenly calls them to
come back.
Butchie is awake and keeps saying that "this
isn't real" and that "it was them".
Before he dies, he grabs Chris and tells him
to remember.
That night, the remaining squad members discuss
leaving the castle again.
Chris says that they should bury the bodies
of the family first and asks to see the journal
to find information.
The pages are suddenly filled with writing
again.
Eugene tells him that he'll check the journal
for clues as to where the bodies are, but
says that they should leave the castle first.
The boys bury Butchie in the garden before
they leave.
Walking back to base camp they see a trashed
ambulance on the road as well as the same
group of refugees as before.
They keep going further and talk about the
possibility of being trapped in the afterlife
until they pass by a strange building.
Later, they reach the same ambulance and decide
to turn around.
The squad walks back through the destroyed
city they passed before and sleeps in the
woods that night.
Tappert has a dream that he's being hanged
from the rafters in the attic, but he wakes
in the woods and sees the word "Vetrulek"
next to his sleeping bag.
The next day, the squad passes by the ambulance
again and when they turn around they are faced
with the bodies of the nazis they killed earlier.
Eventually, they arrive back at the castle,
thinking that it won't let them leave.
That night, Chris thinks that he can communicate
with the spirits and find out where they are
buried.
Tappert says the word "Vetrulek" and Eugene
remembers reading it in the nazi journal.
It's an old Muslim curse, stating that if
you let evil happen it can come back to haunt
you tenfold.
That night, the men wait for the ghosts to
show up and communicate.
Footsteps appear before them and are headed
straight for Chris, stopping before him.
He sees a ghost that grabs him and starts
dragging him to another part of the estate.
Chris begs them to shoot the ghost and even
though he can't see it, Tappert still shoots
in the direction of the ghost.
The others follow Chris to the other house
and when they enter something strange begins
happening to them and they see images from
a different place and time, then they find
Chris next to the bodies of the family.
Later, the soldiers bury the bodies and find
the last page of the journal stuck to the
father.
Eugene reads the last journal entry that says
that the family wasn't French, but an Afghan
and that they risked their lives to save as
many Jews as they can.
The page also says that the mother performed
a vetrulek curse on the nazi soldiers, haunting
them to the grave.
Later at the castle, Eugene remembers another
entry in the journal and reads it again, saying
that the words have changed, now reading that
burying the bodies only gave the ghosts the
power to return from the dead.
Suddenly, the lights go out and as Tappert
sits in the middle of the pentagram on the
attic, the ghosts show up in the castle.
They each attack one soldier and the men try
to combat and shoot them, but nothing works
against them.
All of a sudden, the ghosts begin to glitch
and the mutilated body of Butchie appears
to Chris, telling him that this isn't real.
Then a ghost takes him to a mirror, telling
him to remember.
Chris wakes in the present, surrounded by
nurses and a doctor, then takes a look around
the room and sees his fallen comrades.
He pulls his covers away to see that he has
no legs and the doctor tells him that his
memories will come back in a few moments.
Chris begins to remember that he was actually
a soldier in Afghanistan and that his squad
was supposed to save a doctor that was helping
the Americans.
Their mission was to extract him to a safe
house in Kabul.
In the present, the doctor tells him that
they are in a facility, hooked to a computer
simulation made to help soldiers recover from
PTSD as their injuries heal.
Chris goes into another memory where Tappert
is talking to two boys playing cat's cradle
and giving one of them a toy meant for his
son.
The squad enters the home and the contact
with the doctor tells the family that they
have to leave immediately when he gets a message
that the extraction won't be possible since
enemy combatants are coming to the house.
He tells the doctor to hide them in the wall,
but the squad doesn't want to leave the family
to get slaughtered, though they still listen
to his orders.
The enemy combatants arrive and immediately
begin voicing their suspicions about the doctor's
possible collaboration with the Americans.
The men grab the children as the mother begs
them to let them go.
Nevertheless, they still drown the boy and
hang the daughter, as the soldiers watch from
behind the hiding spot, having already decided
that there are too many of them to engage
with.
Lastly, they soak the father in kerosene and
burn him, while the squad does nothing.
After the enemy leaves, Tappert sees that
the little boys have also been killed.
As soon as the squad is out of the house,
the mother comes out screaming with a bomb,
and even though Butchie tackles her, they
all blow up.
Chris comes back to reality and asks the doctor
why they did what they did.
He explains that they had to create a sim
in which they were in WW2 but in no immediate
danger.
Butchie woke up one day for unknown reasons
and when he saw his body, he simply died.
Chris thinks that everything that they saw
and heard in the castle was them sending subliminal
messages to themselves.
He also tells the doctor that something is
wrong with the simulation and asks about "vetrilek".
The nurse tells him that they all said the
word at one point or another when the soldier
remembers the moments after the explosion
with the mother saying the word "vetrilek"
to him.
Suddenly, the lights begin to flicker in the
facility and the ghosts appear there as well
while Chris is saying that they brought them
to life and gave them power.
The soldiers begin to convulse and Chris begs
to be brought back to the sim to save his
men.
The nurse agrees and brings him back inside,
but tells him that his memory will be wiped.
Chris wakes up in the woods and sees the apparition
on the adjacent tree and asks what it wants.